Welcome to introducing Unreal's
TArray! So, in this video, I want to tell you that a TArray
is Unreal's go-to container class. It's a great class for
grouping together things, many elements of the same type. So, in
our case that's going to be Actors that are on the pressure plate,
in the game. So, over here in this trigger volume, we're going to be able to put tables, chairs,
and even ourselves, and we're going to use a TArray to store them.
So, we're also going to give our Default Pawn and eye-height
and a mass. And we'll be making our pressure plate
based on total mass. So, what that means is our Pawn is actually going to
be on the ground. If we move off the ground, we land back at the ground and we can't duck down
anymore, so we're a bit more human-like as we move around the room, and we'll have a mass
as will the table and chair, which will all be ready to trigger that plate. We
won't quite get to that point in this video, but see you in a moment!
So, let's have a little recap as to how this was working! Remember that our doors
both have an OpenDoor component on them, and that, that Open Door
component used to have a publicly exposed Actor that opens but in
the code we changed that a little bit. So, we still have this Actor pointer
ActorThatOpens, but then, what we did in the constructor is we just
went and found the Pawn. So, right now, the only thing that will open these
doors is the Pawn itself. Well, we're going to change this around to be based on
mass. So firstly, let's give our character controller
a little bit of mass. How do we do that? Well, it's not a character controller, it's a Pawn!
Go to the Default Pawn Blueprint, and it's relatively simple actually.
It already had a few things that we can change. The Base
Eye Height, I'm going to have to say 60. Let's see the effect that has!
So the Base Eye Height, by the way, is in the Details Tab of the
DefaultPawn Blueprint, under the Camera section. So, if I
play now, then I get an eye height, but I can still kind of float. The reason I can float is
physics. So, let's go back to the DefaultPawn, and let's
have a little look at what else we can change. Well, we have a CollisionComponent, so go
to the CollisionComponent, let's simulate physics. I'm going to make the guy
roughly my weight, 70 kilos. We're also going to make sure that the simulation generates
hits and that the collision generates overlap events.
So to recap, I've gone to the DefaultPawn Blueprint, selected the CollisionComponent,
I'm Simulating Physics, giving it a mass of a reasonable mass,
and then ticking these two boxes. Simulation Generates,
what does it say? Hit Events I think? Yep, Hit Events and
Generate Overlap Events as well. Alright, now the Simulation Generates Hit
Events will allow it to do physics collisions with things, so we collide with the walls. We were
already doing that, but Generating Overlap events is going to become important
in a bit, because we want the trigger volume to notice we're in it. The only other thing I've changed
about this is the Eye Height over on the Default Pawn itself. So, if we do that,
then what happens with we use the Default Pawn? We can now kind of run around. We can jump
by just going up, but we can run around and we're stuck to the floor,
which is much better. OK, so now what we want this trigger volume to do is notice
when we're in it or when the table is in it, which it doesn't or
when the chair is in it. And we're going to organize it so we need to put both the table and the
chair in, in order to actually
open the doors. So that's the background, as to what we're doing. I've made those changes to the Default
Pawn. I'm going to now go into my code, and on OpenDoor.h I don't need
an Actor that opens. So, let's get rid of it and save which will, of course,
immediately break OpenDoor.cpp, because ActorThatOpens here
in the constructor, we can't set it so let's get rid of it in the constructor.
So, no more ActorThatOpens anywhere in our code. Do we have
it anywhere else? Well, we could always do a search, of course.
ActorThatOpens in the current file,
have a look, there it is, and that's exactly where our red error is,
because it's trying to do something with ActorThatOpens. Well, all this code actually, basically
all of this code, not the OpenDoor() code, but this bit about when we're openning
the door here needs to change. So, what
we're going to do is yes we're going to "// Poll the trigger volume", but it's not if the Actor
opens in the volume, it is this. It's if something like
(GetTotalMassOfActors
OnPlate(). Let's just imagine
we've got a method called GetTotalMassOfActorsOnPlate(). Is greater
than some threshold, which we really ought to
make editable in the Inspector.
So, TriggerMass or
for now let's hard code it! Let's say 50 kilograms, 50
point f like that. Now, if you hardcode something, you could
make it into a parameter.
If you just want to focus on what you're doing, you can always put yourself a TODO to change
that later, into something that's parameterized, because we just want to focus. If the
total mass on the plate is greater than 50,
then we open the door and everything else is the same right. The question is, how do we
deal with (GetTotalMassOnPlate)? Well, let's go write that method now, that's the whole point
of this video. But the reason I'm doing it outside of this method, outside of
Tick, is because it keeps Tick nice and small, and I can get rid of
that comment because it's gone out of sync. Polling the trigger volume. Yeah,
we can leave that. "// Check if it's time to close the door". Yeah, that's all good! OK, so here we go!
What is (GetTotalMassOfActorsOnPlate() going to be? it's going to be a float coming back,
because we don't know they add up to a whole number, and then, it's going to be a UGrab
which is the class. Syntactic noise of C++ and then
there it is! Now, let's go ahead and define it, and also we
need to create a declaration. So, I can Quick Actions, Create Declaration,
and it's
failed. Has it? Well, it's going to parse a load of files. You know, I can't be bothered to way for that, so I'm going
to do it manually, and that's helpful for you Xcode guys anyway. I tend to put
all my values up at the top, and the actual methods
lower down. We don't need the name of the class, so this is all very
standard stuff by now. GetTotalMassOfActorsOnPlate(); you know,
that is so... I think I will put a comment, but it's just for clarifying.
"// Returns total mass
in" kilograms. You see that and the name of the method tell you precisely what it does.
Float of course doesn't have a capital F, so neither does it over here.
So, OK we're good to go! We have the
method here that is kind of nearly what we want, right?
I'm going to save my
header file, save this. Right, why don't we, for now, just do
a test? Why don't we just return 60f? So, we're just going to
return 60 kilos and just run the game and see what happens. Just
make sure that the code we just wrote actually works. So, it's 60 kilos,
with a threshold, what's our threshold, of 50. The door should just open and stay open. Let's
see if that's what happens! Compile Failed, so I've made a
boo boo somewhere. Line 55 and 57 if the .cpp.
Ah, look at me! I've been so used to writing code in the UGrabber class
that, of course, I forgot that I'm in UOpenDoor. OK, so that's
what it is! And I need a decimal place in there. Great, let's go back and
try again! Compile.
So, the mass is 60 that, that method is reporting, so the moment we play, the
doors should open. They do! And then, if we returned a mass of say 40,
then the doors should not open when we play. You see what I'm doing? I'm breaking the
problem down and making sure I'm as close as possible to running code all the time, and the
doors don't open. Awesome! So, it looks like the general structure works.
That's good news! Now, we need to actually get the total mass of Actors on play. So, we're going to
need a temporary variable. It's going to be something like float TotalMass
= let's initialize it nothing. Great! And at the end, we're
going to return TotalMass. No point in doing that in
pseudocode. So then, what are we going to do? So firstly, we're going to"// Find all
the overlapping actors", and then, we're going to "// Iterate
through them
adding their masses". You can stay on this
level of abstraction. That's absolutely fine! Great! So
then, how do we find all the overlapping Actors? Well, what do we have?
What do we have available? Where do we even start? Let's take a zoom out! We're
on what? We're on OpenDoor. We need the pressure plate
right, so what have we got? Ah, we've got a pointer to a TriggerVolume.
We've got a pointer to a pressure plate, so let's start with the pressure plate.
Now, what is this? We just said it's a pointer, so it's an
error operator. Now, if we go GetOverlapping
Actors, let's look at the signature of this method.
TArray of type AActor
pointer reference to &OverlappingActors.
Now, the fact this is a reference to OverlappingActors coming in
here, tells me that it's an out parameter. And this
other parameter is actually optional. Now, how would you find out that the second
parameter is optional? You would go to Google and Google for Get
OverlappingActors. Let's do that!
And let's just see what they've got to say in their documentation about this.
And here,
optional ClassFilter is optional. OK, and then there's
the signature of the other bit. So, let's just talk about what this TArray thing
is here. This is an out parameter, so we're going to need to have ourselves
a TArray of (Actor* pointers.
OK, but you use these type of brackets,
pointers. So, what you're doing there is saying give me an array, a TArray,
as I mentioned in the intro, is a very useful data structure. Give me a TArray of
AActor* pointers. Alright, that's what that's saying.
And let's call it Overlapping...
What am I doing? Overlapping, there you go, Actors.
And let's not bother to initialize it, because we're immediately
going to initialize it on the next line. So, TArray of AActor* pointers. Give me a
collection of Actors, of pointers to Actors, called OverlappingActors, and
then, this is actually an (OUT parameter isn't it? Now, we haven't done #define OUT. Later,
we'll talk about how to make a #define that goes across all of our projects, but
for now, let's just re-#define out. Remember this does nothing,
it is a macro that says replace OUT with nothing. OK, it
literally does nothing, but it allows us to mark these OverlappingActors
as an OUT parameter.
So, it just remains to say, remember that this is an
OUT parameter pattern here. So, we declare something,
each thing gets passed into this method, and then by here, after
this method called OverlappingActors, it should contain an array of
AActor* pointers. And we'll find out whether it does in the next video, when we actually iterate
through them, adding their masses per the comment. Alright, so your challenge,
for this video, is right at the end this time and it's to read about TArray. I want you
to skim read the TArray documentation. The link is coming up. Look out for the range-
based for loop in there. There's a lot of stuff, so please don't go through it with a fine tooth comb, it'll
drive you nuts. I just want you to have a quick look through, specifically looking for where
they show you examples of a for loop that is able to iterate through this array.
And even more in particular, the pattern that uses a
colon for so for something colon something, like that. So, have a look
and see if you can find that syntax, it's going to help you in the next video. And there are your docs to
the TArray. Remember you can click that. One of the easiest ways
is to just either go to the Google doc, which is linked from the first lecture of
this section, or just to go and get the .pdf from the first lecture of this
section. And that's not quite as up to date as the Google docs, they're always bang up to date. Or just do a quick
Google search for TArray Unreal, that might be your quickest. OK, see you soon!
[Laughs] If you expected me to come back
then not this time. It's going to be in the next video that we'll go and use this.
See you in the next video!